.TH rc.user 1
.\"  SCOPE rc.user ZZZZ
.SH NAME 
rc.user \- highly portable Borne family profiles 
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Not intended to be executed manually, but from within per-shell 
configuration file.

.LP
To patch current login after installed:
.LP
.RS 4
rc.user/install.sh
.RE


.SH DESCRIPTION
This is not a program but a style of configuring shells.
The
.B rc.user
family of shell configurations addresses the problems of users that
maintain logins on different systems,
often with different shells,
and sometimes with different vintages of shells.
.
.LP
Historically such diverse shells requires maintaining a number of 
configurations in parallel or allowing growing differences between 
logins to accumulate over time.
.
.LP
With
.BR rc.user ,
users can maintain one master profile that is copied to other systems
as appropriate.
To allow for the diversity of configurations,
these configurations are modeled after the ZZZ series of initilization scripts.
The
.B rc.user
directory contains a series of directories whose name starts with 
a number and includes a descriptive name.
.LP
The
.B
rc.user/rc.sh
script is invoked at the start of each shell to perform both initial
login and more conventional per-shell configurations.
This script scans the nested directory names, in order,
to determine if they are approprate for the current system.
If so they are run and the fact they were run is remembered to 
assure login-specific configurations are only done once,
during the first (login) shell's configuration.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.SH \0\0Directory Names
The options, such as they are, are the series of directories 
within
.B rc.user/
for specific configurations.
.LP
The names of these directories must follow the following rules:
.IP "\01." \w'\01.i'u
Names start with exactly two digits.
.IP "\02."
The digits are followed by either a hyphen or a period "break character".
.IP "\03."
The break character is followed by a unique name that should be both 
short and appropriately descriptive.
.LP
These directories are processed in order of ascending numbers.
While multiple directories often have the same number,
the order directories with the same number are processed in 
must be considered unpredictable.
.LP
If the break character is a hyphen,
then the directory is always processed.
If the break character is a period,
then the directory is only processed if the name after the period 
matches a local condition.
Local conditions include:
.IP "\0\(bu" \w'\0\(bu\&i'u
Name of shell (e.g.,
.BR bash ,
.BR ksh ).
.IP "\0\(bu"
Name of host (as returned by
.BR uname ).
.IP "\0\(bu"
Users login name.
.IP "\0\(bu"
Name of operating system (as returned by
.BR uname ).
.LP
The use of conditional directories allows users to maintain 
configurations specific to specific hosts, shells, etc.,
in a common directory.
These can even be consistently installed on all systems logged in to
without adversely impacting configurations as they will be ignored
on inapproprate systems.
.
.LP
The suggested number use follows:
.IP "\050" \w'\000\&i'u
Generic configurations.
Any generic configuration that might be bundled in 
.B  rc.user
should go. 
.IP "\010" 
Reserved for early configurations,
such as shell configurations,
that have a strong potential to impact subsequent configuraitons.
.IP "\000" 
For special configurations that must impact
.B 10
configurations.
.IP "\070" 
Configurations for specific companies,
etc.
Much like the
.B 50
generic configurations,
but this is where configurations built for specific hosts,
companies,
or people should go.
.IP "\099" 
Final configurations.
Where configurations that must run after all other configurations go.
This should be reserved for configurations that run programs for the
user on login,
such as starting X-windows in some environments.
Such scripts often exit to log the user off after the special program 
exits.
Such special programs are often started with
.IR exec (2)
style commands to assure any type of exit performs an appropriate logoff.
.
.SH \0\Individual Configurations
The configurations within each directory is controlled by a 
.B rc.sh
file within.
Such files are "sourced" to perform the configurations.
If the file is missing, or unreadable, no configurations are 
performed for the directory.
.LP
Each of these
.B rc.sh
scripts add to PATH, MANPATH, or other environment variables as approprate.
They may set any configuration that is approprate for the current condition.
.LP
Any "bin/", "man/", or other directories are found in same directory the
.B rc.sh
file is in.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
Environment variables referenced by
.BR rc.user .
.LP
.IP \0\0\&HOME \w'\0\0HELLO_WORLD'u
user's home directory
.IP \0\0\&LOGNAME'
user's login name
.IP \0\0\&TERM
user's terminal type
.IP \0\0\&LINENO
current line number of command (used within internal traps)
.IP \0\0\&rcDIR
optional variable identifying where the
.B rc.user
directory is to be found.
Defaults to
.BR $HOME/rc.user .
.
.LP
Environment variables set by
.BR rc.user .
.LP
.IP \0\0\&rcLOCAL \w'\0\0HELLO_WORLD'u
maintains list of colon-separated 
.B rc.user directories that have already been processed.
.IP \0\0\&rcU_HOSTNAME
name of host from
.BR uname .
Sometimes a fully qualified host name.
Sometmes not.
.IP \0\0\&rcU_HOSTNAME0
Hostname in
.B rcU_HOSTNAME
without any qualification.
.br
.IP \0\0\&rcU_OS
name of os, as returned by
.BR uname .
.
.LP
The following extenal variables are defined when
.B rc.user/rc.sh
is running,
but not after configurations complete
(or any prior values are restored).
They are intended for use within the various configuration scripts.
.IP \0\0\&rcDIR \w'\0\0HELLO_WORLD'u
path to 
.B rc.user
directory.
.IP \0\0\&rcHOME
path to directory
.B rc.user
is found in.
Typically the same value as
.BR $HOME ,
but for some systems this is different.
.IP \0\0\&rcWORKDIR
name of configuration directory now being used.
.IP \0\0\&rcWORKPATH
absolute path name to configuration directory now being used.
